### Backwards-incompatible changes

- Raise the minimum Perl version for tests and test support libraries to Perl 5.12 (released in April of 2010).
- Require use of the Perl 5.12 `package Module::Name v1.0.0` syntax in the module version tests. Always use semantic versions when updating module versions.
- Update perltidy configuration for Perl critic tests, taking advantage of new perltidy features: add line breaks after labels, enable vertical alignment for => pairs, add trailing commas to multiline lists, and align trailing unless with trailing if. Thanks, Julien ÉLIE.
- Remove various obsolete exclusions from SPDX license tests now that the `@SPDX_IGNORE` configuration option is available (see below).

### New features

- Update the warning flags probed by `RRA_PROG_CC_WARNINGS_FLAGS` to disable `-Wunsafe-buffer-usage` for Clang (not intended for C code) and add several new GCC warnings and related flags added between GCC 9.2 and 13.2.
- `@SPDX_IGNORE` may now be set in the perl.conf test configuration file to specify an additional list of regular expressions matching files that the check for SPDX license headers should ignore.

### Bug fixes

- Ignore files created by the Perl Carton tool, JSON files, and temporary files generated by tests when checking for SPDX licenses and Perl strictness in standard tests.
- Suppress erroneous warnings from GCC 13.2 for `xrealloc` and `xreallocarray`.

### Other changes

- The rra-c-util change log is now formatted in Markdown, named `CHANGELOG.md`, and maintained using [scriv](https://scriv.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).
- rra-c-util now uses [semantic versions](https://semver.org/).
